\section*{\hfill \Large Acknowledgements \hfill} 

While I am the person who authored this paper, the reality is that this paper
has been indirectly done by a set of people whom I dedicate this section.

The most influencial person at this reasearch is my long time honorary advisor
Prof. Beomseok Nam, a person that without his support and empathy this work and
many other works could not have been done. Year after year, he has guided me to
become a better person.  I would always be greateful to him.\\ \\

Along my Prof. Nam a very important figure is my advisor Prof. YoungRi Choi
whose help has been fundamental to carry my studies and my research during my
time at UNIST.  She has always offered me help without any exception whenever I
needed.  \\ \\

In a wider manner, the fantastic team of systems Professors at the UNIST
computer science department who through their coursers have shared with me the
latest and most important disciplines and have inspired me to find answers from
different areas. \\ \\ 

Very importantly has been the support of my colleages at the lab who have
participated in this work one way or the other. Also, those who have helped me
to carry out the different paperworks that my research required. \\ \\ 

There has not been any other person that has contributed more at this work than
my long term partner Heo Suhyun. I have no words to appreciate her help, she
has spent sleepessles night of work along me, she has followed me around the
world, and she has always gave me her best and taken my worst. 
She has been the emotional support to create this work. \\ \\ 

Lastly, I would not literaly be able to be physically capable to enroll
this master program without the infinite love of my family. During all these
years they have endured the painful decision of me living on the other part of
the work because they have always believed on me. They have always accepted every
path I have taken in my life and they have helped me every bit they could.  \\ \\ 


Utmost proud of being your son, father and mother.  \\ \\


The Author,

Vicente Adolfo Bolea S\'anchez

